Hello and welcome to this course.

The first thing I'd like to say is congratulations on being here and investing in yourself.

Now this course and all of the associated resources we've put together are designed to ensure you have

the best chance to pass your exam. No matter what your background.

Everyone can pass this exam with the right resources and the right approach to study.

So, how do you go about using all of these resources to your best advantage?

Firstly, I'd like to point you towards the course download lesson, which is the last lesson in this

section.

In that lesson, you'll find a link to our website.

From that page, you'll be able to download the code that you need for the hands-on lessons in this

course.

You'll also find a study guide, which can give you a very good idea of how to approach study.

Now it is a guideline really.

You can follow it to the latter if you like, or you might sort of tailor it to your own needs, depending

on how much time you have each day to allocate to study.

You'll also find the slides from the course, which you can download and peruse at your leisure offline.

There are two types of lessons in this course.

The first is the theory lessons.

Now in those, I try to keep things as visual as possible with lots of animated diagrams to help you

to understand the concepts.

Then we go into hands-on lessons.

You'll identify those because the name of the lesson has HOL at the beginning.

Hands-on lessons are where you have an opportunity to go into the AWS console in your own free tier

account and follow along with what I do so that you can learn some really valuable hands-on skills.

At the end of each section, you'll find a couple of additional lessons.

One is the Architecture Patterns.

What I do in those lessons is I try to introduce you to a way of taking the knowledge you've just learned

and putting it into the types of scenarios that you find in the workplace and also on the exam.

So it's about understanding particular problems that companies are trying to solve with the technologies

you've just learned about.

I go through some example requirements and the best solutions for them.

Then I have the exam crams.

Exam crams are a really fast-paced way of going through essentially a list of bullet points, key facts

that you just need to understand for the exam.

Now, that's good for last minute revision

after you've been through the section, you've understood the theory, you've practiced hands-on, and

now you just want to go through very quickly and get to the core facts.

At the end of each section, you'll also find a quiz.

The quiz will test your understanding of the knowledge you've just learned.

Quizzes are not meant to reflect the style of the exam questions. Those can be found in our practice

tests.

Now, I do highly recommend that you use our full practice test course to make sure that you've got

a broad understanding of the types of questions that come up, and really hone your skills on problem

solving and coming up with the best solutions.

Quick tip. If at any point in the course you find that I'm going too fast or too slow for you, you can

always change the playback speed.

And there are also subtitles which you can enable or disable at any time

if you want to read along as well. The last thing I want to mention is our cheat sheets.

You'll find links at the end of each section.

Now they are a list of the core knowledge that often comes up in the exams that are a good way of quickly

getting to the knowledge you need without getting bogged down in all the hundreds of pages you'll find

on AWS.

So hopefully they're a really useful resource for you too.

So those are all the resources available to you. Now,

I do highly recommend that you follow through the course in order. I do build on concepts and we work

through labs and use things that we've created in previous sections.

So it's really much better if you follow through the course in order and don't skip any lessons.

So that's it.

As I mentioned, there's a lot of resources here and absolutely everything you need to pass the exam.

So, I hope you enjoy the course and I'll see you in the next lesson.


Hello everyone, and welcome to this video.

In this video, I'm going to walk you through the details

of the SAA-C03 exam,

that's the code

for the AWS Certified Solutions Architect Associate Exam.

So, let's get into the details.

This exam is an associate-level certification exam.

That means it's between the foundational

and then the professional level.

So it does require that you have some experience

and knowledge of AWS experience in the industry.

Now, don't worry if you don't have that,

because we will take you from the beginning,

it just makes it a bit easier if you do have some background

and understanding of things like compute, storage,

networking, and databases.

Now, the length of this exam is 130 minutes,

and there are 65 questions.

At the associate level, the questions are scenario-based,

and some of those scenarios can be quite complex,

and the answers themselves can be quite tricky.

Often I'll find that there's maybe two answers

which look very, very tempting to choose,

and one of them is still clearly wrong,

but you've gotta try and work that out.

So, it can become a little bit tricky.

Sometimes you might find

that you're spending a few minutes on a question,

but be careful of the timer,

because the time is counting down,

and you wanna make sure you have enough time.

So, don't get stuck on a question for too long,

mark it for review and come back to it,

and you'll find that some of the other questions

you'll be able to answer much more quickly.

The cost is $150,

if you've done another certification before,

make sure you remember to get your voucher

so you get a 50% discount,

assuming you passed the previous exam.

Delivery method is testing center or online,

so you can go into a testing center,

or, as long as you fulfill the basic requirements,

then you can do it online.

So you need a quiet space, a quiet room, no one else around,

no noise, clutter-free desk,

and once you sign up, they will email you

and give you some details there.

You can even do a technical check

and make sure your networking is okay,

your camera's working, and your microphone as well.

Scoring is scaled scoring

between a hundred and a thousand points.

They don't tell us any more than that,

so it's a little bit of a black box,

but basically you need to get 720 points out of a thousand,

so around 72% to get a pass mark.

Question format is multiple-choice and multiple-response.

So with multiple-choice,

that means you're gonna have four answers,

one of them is correct, three are not.

With multiple-response,

it varies from two or more correct responses

from five or more options.

There's no hands-on component or anything like that,

it's purely just multi-choice

and multiple-response questions.

For the SAA-C03, it's broken into four domains,

and these really sort of reflect

the architectural considerations we have,

which are security, resilience, performance, and cost.

So, the first one is design secure architectures.

The first task statement within this domain is,

design secure access to AWS resources,

so you need to know what security controls you can apply

to make sure the resources are secured well.

You also need to know how to design secure workloads

and applications,

and determine appropriate data security controls.

That's the responsibility of you as a customer in AWS.

Domain two is design resilient architectures.

You need to know how to design scalable

and loosely coupled architectures, and highly available

and, or, fault-tolerant architectures as well.

Domain three is design high-performing architectures,

so you need to know how to ensure

that storage solutions are scalable and performant.

And the same for elastic compute solutions as well,

so you need to understand the various different methods

and controls that you have,

and deployment options you have available to you

for ensuring that performance meets specified requirements.

Task statement 3.3 is,

determine high performing database solutions.

So, you might implement things like scalable storage,

or perhaps caching for the database.

3.4 is determine high performing,

and, or, scalable network architectures.

And 3.5 is determine high-performing data ingestion

and transformation solutions.

For domain four, now we get to cost-optimized architectures.

You need to know

how to design cost-optimized storage solutions,

cost-optimized compute solutions,

cost-optimized database solutions,

and cost-optimized network architectures.

That's it for this overview of the exam,

and if you want some more details,

including the ability to review the in-scope services,

which AWS services are,

or potentially might be included in your exam,

you can go straight to the AWS exam guide,

I'll add a link to this lesson.

Of course, don't worry,

we do cover all of those services in the course as well,

we're constantly updating

and making sure that we have everything covered

that you need to know for your exam.

In this quick video,

I just want to discuss a couple of options

for getting hands-on practice.

Now whatever technology you are learning,

there's no substitute

for getting hands-on practice actually using the technology.

It really is the best way to learn.

Now in this course,

I recommend you open your own AWS Free Tier account,

but there's another additional tool

that might be useful called a Sandbox.

So let's start off with Free Tier.

With the Free Tier,

you are gonna create your very own AWS Free Tier account,

and I'm gonna show you how to do that.

Now you get full control over this account.

It's your account,

and that means you can do anything you want

with the account.

Now this does mean that you are responsible for any bills.

You'll need to add a credit card when you sign up

for your Free Tier account,

and you'll have to pay any bills that you run up.

Now we will operate in the Free Tier in this course,

and if we ever go outside of the Free Tier,

I'm gonna warn you,

but you always have to follow my instructions

and make sure you shut down resources to avoid bills.

And we're gonna set a billing alarm

so you get a notification if you reach a certain threshold.

I highly recommend

that you do open your own Free Tier account

so you can follow along with my instructions

as we go through the course in the hands-on lessons.

An additional resource is known

as a Sandbox or a Challenge Lab.

Now in this model,

the AWS account is actually hosted by a provider.

It's not your account.

Now that does mean that you will have limited control.

For more advanced courses,

it means you won't be able to do things

like cross-account access

because you'll only have one account

and you'll have limited control over it.

On the plus side, it means you get no cloud bills,

you don't take any risk or responsibility.

You pay for the service upfront,

and there's no risk of running up any additional bills.

With Challenge Labs, you get scenario-based challenges,

so it's a great way to test your skills

and learn new skills as well based on a scenario

that's been pre-configured for you,

it's been designed for you and the lab has been set up

to accommodate that particular challenge.

I recommend Challenge Labs as an additional training tool.

If you do want to gain access to Challenge Labs,

then we actually have some on our website.

Now this is completely optional.

It's not required for this course,

but it's an extra learning tool.

It does require registration

and you have to pay an additional fee.

There's a video on this page

to show what they look like in action.

And in this particular example,

there are over 700 labs

across many different cloud platforms and technologies.

Alternatively, if you're just learning AWS,

you can access the AWS Challenge Labs,

and you can see an example here of the console.

For those who are taking the SysOps exam,

this is what you'll see in your AWS exam lab.

This is the same provider that AWS use

for their new exam labs.

So you'll get the AWS Management Console on the left

and some instructions on the right,

or in the case of the exam or the more advanced labs,

you just get a scenario and a few hints

as to what you need to do,

and it also verifies and validates the work

that you've done.

So these are completely optional,

but they're definitely a very useful tool

for getting extra practice and validating your own skills.



